And last but not least we would like to set up a smooth scroll functionality where once we click on
a link we in fact smooth scroll to that particular section.
So let's say we're going to go for featured services about can go back home.
You can also set this up on this particular link where we'd like to explore resource.
So then we scroll to the stores and if we go all the way to the bottom let's say gallery and then we
can also do the same thing from the footer where within the footer we do have the about.
So again we can head over to about again and we click on the gallery and we go to feature and so on
and so forth.
So essentially which ever link we would want to be small scroll.
We're gonna have a functionality for that.
So in this case we are not going to work on the style Sears has in fact we're going to do our work first
in the indexation email and then app J.S..
So first of all in the index yes or I'm sorry indexation email we would like to set up a new class.
Now the class name here is going to be smooth scroll or scrolling again.
You can name this how you like as long as your later on in fact use it within the same functionality
when you are in fact using the javascript.
OK.
So first of all let me come up with or maybe let me check for sure which class I used and I believe
I use scrolling.
So let's set up scroll link class.
Now you're gonna have to add this particular class to all the links which you'd want to be smooth scroll
meaning to all the links that you would want to have functionality where you click on the link and then
you're gonna smooth scroll.
So let me select this class.
Currently I'm sitting with a number so I'm gonna add this to all my links so I'm about services and
what we're doing again we're adding a new class with the value of scrolling and then I also like to
do the same thing for my hero remember within the hero we had this explorer torch.
So I'd like to add the same functionality here as well.
So we have a trough.
It is currently pointing to the featured and we have button of white.
So let me copy and pasted.
And now we're gonna have a smooth or I'm sorry scrolling as well.
Now keep in mind though one thing then currently once we have our current setup with the nature trip
we already are heading over to that particular section.
Now the only thing is though that it is not happening smoothly.
Well once we click on it we have featured we have about and all that.
So keep in mind that we already are heading over to that particular section is just we do not have a
smooth scroll.
So that should be a hero.
And also remember we had links all the way in the bottom when we had our footer.
So whenever you have a photo or a link you can also add a scrolling scrolling scrolling scrolling and
it scrolling as well.
Let's say that and then we're going to head over back to Algiers again and we're going to have a comment
on the like.
So now our value is not going to be now fixed.
We're going to say a smooth scroll let's first of all write smooth scroll.
And then first and foremost we're going to target dealings.
So it's right.
Concert scroll links.
Again we're just coming up with some kind of name for the variable and let's say document query selector.
Now in this case we would want to select multiple items so we need to use query selector all and then
we are using that class that we just added to all our links.
So let's say scroll links and again let's start very simply by just looking whether our selection was
correct.
So let's look at the scroll links and within the console we should have a node list right now.
Currently this node list is in fact telling me that while it is empty and I can clearly see that again
there's something wrong with that because we should have a list of items.
Now my error is very simple.
I used scroll links where I should use scrolling because it should match exactly the class that I added.
And again I'm just showing you a very simple examples how your functionality might actually work that
if you're not targeting the correct element Well you're gonna have to you're gonna have an error.
So once we console log we have a scroll links.
And notice I do have my noticed that it was in fact something that I was interested in getting right.
Now once I have my scroll links then I would like to use the for each method because I would like to
add a vent listener for each and every link.
Now when we do that is by using a link or I'm sorry not links scrolling is sorry scroll links then we
use the for each method.
That particular method is in fact iterating over our node list and we're gonna say that we're passing
in the callback function and then each and every item is in fact representing that particular item in
that list.
So that is my function and in fact I could sum this up as an our function just so you can see a little
bit clearer.
And then once I pass in let's say the parameter that particular parameter is going to reflect each and
every item in my link.
So item number 0 is going to be there and 1 and all the way up to and 9.
So in this case it is a parameter so I can call this like someone go with a link.
Right now what I would like to do for the link is in fact add a vent listener.
So each and every time we click on a link we're going to add a listener so we're going to be listening
for that particular event the Click event.
And once we click in fact on that particular button Well we're gonna do something.
And first and foremost we're also gonna pass the event object within our callback function.
So once we click on a link we're gonna in fact get our event object.
Now first of all let's just check it by console logging and let's say hello.
You click a link.
Something like that.
Let's save it.
And what I would like to do right now is once we click on it.
NORRIS halo.
You click the link and twice third time and fourth time and all that.
Now first of all you're also gonna notice that once we click on those links like I said we are right
away navigating to our specific section and that is in fact not what I would want.
So since we have our event object what I would like to do first is use this prevent default.
Okay.
So we're going to use the prevent default.
So in this case what is going to happen that once we click on the link even though we are using the
extra funnel that we click on it.
Notice how our page is not moving to our about section okay or services or any of like that because
previously this is exactly what was happening because that was the default behavior of the link.
So since we would like to set up smooth scrolling we need to make sure that we use event prevent default.
That's number one.
Now also on a smaller screen size.
Now that is not an issue for the bigger screen sizes but on a smaller screen size.
What I would like to do is once we click on this particular link I would like to close again my links.
So I like to hide my links.
Now remember what was the functionality for that.
We used a toggle for show links.
So what I would like to do right now is in fact once we click on it first and foremost I would like
to in fact remove that class list or class of short lengths.
So instead of toggling so I just copy paste it but I'm gonna remove it.
So each and every time we're gonna click on that particular link we in fact are going to close it as
well.
Right now we're not navigating to that particular section because again we used event prevent default.
So we in fact avoided the default behavior.
But what we're doing right now essentially is each and every time we're clicking on it we're also closing
the number because I think it's gonna be better for the smaller screen size now doesn't matter on a
bigger screen size of course.
But on a small screen size it makes all the difference in the world.
And once we're done setting up prevent default meaning once we're going to click on the links we're
not gonna scroll there by default as well as once we are done removing the show links class from the
Navarre or I'm sorry from the links then that means that we can proceed and in fact set up our logic.
Now what I'm gonna do right now is in fact delete this particular console log and of course you can
leave it if you like but I'm just going to delete it and then let's think about it.
So for each and every link what do we have.
Well we do have this H ref attribute and there is a way for us in fact to access that H ref attribute
using JavaScript and the way we can do that.
Again we are going to use the event object because the event object has the target property on it and
by using that in fact I could access that interest attribute for each and every link that I'm clicking
whether that is going to be on a no war whether that is going to be somewhere let's say within the footer.
OK.
Same deal.
Now let's do that by in fact getting our ideas.
So what I'm going to do right now is set up my idea variable like I said I'm going to use event target.
And the reason why I can access the event object is because I passed it here within the callback function
and then we have a method by the name of get an attribute the attribute of Morgan for is going to be
a nature of and in fact what I can do is I can just cancel it again.
So let's look for that particular item.
So what I would like to do is just click on it and notice I'm gonna get my idea of about and I can get
services featured.
And essentially what we're doing is we're accessing all the traps that we have.
So whatever link we click on well we get this particular picture of.
Now what I would like to do though is remove that hashtag now just coming in front and the way we do
that is use the slice method and we just say that.
Get me everything starting from the item that is in the position of one.
So we in fact removing the zero index or item that is in the zero index in our string which is that
hashtag.
So now once we click on it.
Notice the hashtag is gone.
And in fact we're just getting these ideas.
Now once we have this particular idea I could select an element and I can say const element and that
element is going to be document get element by I.D. and the I.D. I'm going to use is in fact this particular.
And one that we just got from the target.
And what we could do again is console log the element right away or we can use the offset to our property
on that element.
So I'm going to right away console log the offset top property so let's write element offset TARP and
what is going to happen is that once we let's say click on the about so we open up our number and we
click on the above.
Now this tells me the pixels from the top that about section etc..
And in this case this is six hundred ninety six.
Now I can also check it out.
Let's say featured again same deal in this case though it's two thousand seven hundred eighty two.
Then if we look for two hours then we have two thousand four hundred and forty nine.
And hopefully you get the gist.
So once I get this particular property I know where the actual element it is sitting within the document.
And once I know the distance I can use another method by the name of scroll to so window window scroll
to this particular method is on the window object.
So let's say we know scroll through and then within this particular method we're going to pass in the
object and then within there an object we have few properties.
So first one is going to be what is going to be our horizontal position.
So that's the reason again we're using the left.
So that is very similar how we used a position fixed for example or position absolute where we say well
where we would like to be horizontally and vertically.
And we're going to start with horizontal position and I'm going to say left should be zero because I
wouldn't want to scroll left and right.
In fact I would like to scroll up and down meaning vertically.
And that's the reason where we also have a top position.
And for the top position for the time being we're going to use that off set property.
So each and every element has this offset property and we're going to say scroll to that particular
element the one that has been selected and use that offset properly.
So that's where we're going to scroll.
Now we also have an option of setting up behavior so how we're going to scroll and what I'm going to
use is a smooth value for that.
Now there's gonna be some issues right now.
All right.
I can tell you right away there's still some fixes that we're going to have to do.
However I just want to show that we are going to have some kind of functionality at least.
So something is going to be working now like I said there's going to be some issues that we're going
to fix.
But once you click on it notice which caused the services and we scroll to about then we scroll to let's
say a gallery and all that.
Now what are the problems.
Well first of all our nav bar has its own height.
It has that 62 pixels.
So essentially when we're scrolling we are not ending a right on the edge of that particular element
or section.
In fact we are in the up 62 pixels below.
Right.
Because like I said we are scrolling to the position of that element but we're not taking into account
the actual height of the napper.
Now before we do anything right now before we fix these issues first of all I would like to zoom out
right because there's one more thing that I would like to fix as well because remember previously when
we were looking for our links I said that it was 217 1.
Remember within these stars we set this up as to 71.
Now the issue was that I was zooming in back then.
So what is going to happen if we're going to comment out the NAV links and show links both of the classes
I'm going to show you that in fact it was wrong.
If we head over to let's say nav links you're going to notice that the NAV links are 270 not to 71.
So in order to in fact avoid that behavior by adding to seventy one point forty three I'm going to set
it correctly because on 100 percent is in fact two hundred and seventy pixels instead.
All right.
So first of all let me fix that.
That is the step number one.
Now after that like I said we would want to fix the issue of element offset and the fact that we are
having these 62 pixels and that we are going below.
And again the reason is very simple because once we click on it because we scroll all the way down here
now there is also a difference where there is going to be some more logic on a smaller screen size.
But why don't we start with the bigger screen size so the recording right now and fix the fact that
if I click on the about us I just scroll whatever 62 or one hundred and twenty four pixels below where
I should be.
So first of all let's set up a variable so let's let our position or position variable.
Something like that.
So let's say let.
Position.
Now I'm not going to sign any kind of value to this position variable I'm just going to leave it blank
for now and then I would like to check whether the nav bar has the class or fixed.
So if the NAB bar has the class of fixed well then I would like to actually set position to a element
offset minus sixty two.
So what I'm saying is if Navarre let me set this up properly if nav bar class list then contains if
the nav bar contains the class are fixed.
Essentially if we are scrolling around the page where we are sitting on the top of the page remember
we added this class of fixed.
Only when we started scrolling so I'm just checking whether I'm actually scrolling right now or it's
sitting in a normal position.
So if it has the class affixed then of course I know that I'm scrolling so we're not in a normal position
we already scrolling.
So if we are already scrolling.
My position is going to be element then we have offset job and I'm going to in fact subtract these 62
pixels.
So what I'm saying if I'm scrolling and if I click on a link so if I'd like to navigate move to that
element offset up but also subtract the 62 pixels.
So once we set that I would like to change the top value in fact to a position like so.
And you're gonna notice that.
Well eventually once my def sir is going to kick into gear you're going to notice as we are scrolling.
Once we click on a link we move right exactly where our section is.
We move to services.
Again we move there move to feature.
We move right on top of the section.
Now the problem is going to be when we sit in a normal position once we click on about.
Well first of all we cannot navigate even there.
Because we haven't set up our if statement.
But even if we would just use the same position while it's going to move even more.
Now the reason for that is because we're not accounting to these 62 pixels because once we start scrolling
we take it out of the normal flow.
So in that case we need to say if we are sitting all the way in the top.
So if the position fixed is not added to our number well then we need to subtract even more than we
need to say position alignment and then offset top and subtract.
Hundred and twenty four.
And then you're going to see that if we click on let's say about again we move exactly where our section
starts.
When you click on services.
Now of course we already are scrolling.
So we have to position fixed.
So everything works regardless but we just needed to add this because once we are in the top we're not
again accounting for these 62 pixels.
Now last thing that I would like to point out that this particular setup is not going to work on a smaller
screen size because now we're not accounting for the whole size of the number.
Okay let me show you.
Once we click on it notice how much lower we scroll.
So we should be somewhere here right.
But we scroll let's say to the services now.
In this case it works because again we took out the now bar of the normal flow but if we are all the
way on a back and if we click on any of the links we're going to scroll below where we would want to
be.
And in order to fix that we're going to have to add one more if statement more first of all I would
like to check the height of my nav bar and I I would like to check what is the height of the number
on a small screen size.
Again the way we do that is by looking at developer tools we'll look at elements and let's find right
now our home and let's look at their whole nav bar.
And as far as I can see my now bar is three hundred and thirty two.
So I would need to subtract 332 plus the sixty two pixels and you're going to see that in a second.
So first of all let's start doing that.
Let's say if and now I'd like to check if the window in a row with window in or with is in fact less
than nine hundred ninety two.
Because remember at nine hundred and ninety two in fact we change it around in our styling correct.
Remember we had a neat media query that started to work when while when we moved to nine hundred ninety
two and we know that everything works on a bigger screen size normally but we would like to fix it when
the screen size is less than nine hundred ninety two.
So if the actual screen size is less than nine hundred ninety two that position should be equal to a
element.
So that's right over here element of set up.
And now we need to subtract two things First of all we need to subtract 332 pixels.
That is the height of the number.
Initially once or no sitting in on top as well as these 62 pixels that we have for the height of the
number when we are scrolling.
So now let's just not scroll all the way to the top.
Let's open up our number.
Let's click on it.
And notice how we're nicely going to scroll to a starting point for our section.
OK.
Now again let's try this on the top because it's not exactly going to work as we already scrolling.
Again we come to exactly where the services start.
Now if we're going to start doing that as we're scrolling so noticed right now the height of our neighbor
is not the 332.
So we don't need to have this 300 to 32 plus the 62 and check it out.
If I click on a feature notice I'm definitely not where the featured section start.
So what do we would like to do is in this case also set up one more if statement where again I'm going
to use this nav bar class fixed like so I'm just going to say if the nav bar class fixed is then I would
like to use the position and I'm going to set position to the same thing that I had already here where
I had element offset.
Minus 62.
So that is the case if the class is in fact there.
So if I have the Flex class then I would just like to in fact move it here and then of course if not
then I'm gonna use the other one.
Now are my particular setup is not going to work because I need to include this health statement.
So let me move this position right now within the else.
And now everything is going to move actually work correctly.
We're on a smaller screen size.
If I click on the about from the top I'm going to correctly navigate to the start of the section off
about let's say.
But if I'm already scrolling noticed again we're going to nicely go to a feature towards now everything
already worked on the bigger screen size.
So there should be no issue.
I have about I have the services featured gallery back home.
I can move back home and then I can scroll directly to the services so successfully guys we added also
functionality to our Flex box project.